So I tell the last part, we have like declared all the global variables which are going to be required
inside our application.
We have imported all the packages which are going to be required and we have downloaded the resources,
the image resources which are going to be involved in the application.
So, yes, this was all about the declaration and the resources building path.
Now coming to this build function, which is building the frame of the application.
So we have a frame like a layout for the frame.
We have set the background colour and image for the application, so it should open with the help of
that icon.
So the icon is going to be this file for dot jpg, which we have downloaded already.
Now the set preferred size for the frame set focus equal to two as by default it is set to false and
the j button.
So what these buttons are for.
So firstly, this button is for the back button.
So here in the application we are adding a back button.
We will see that when we will run the application.
Also this text field for the header, you can see that this text field is containing the path.
So currently it is showing a computer here.
We have written it as my computer, so here it is computer.
We can update it accordingly.
But basically this is a text field which will contain the path of whatever folder which is open.
So we have already seen that this was updating continuously with no timeline and containing the accurate
part of the folder which is open here.
We can see that it is containing the as we are inside the D drive.
Now the next panel is containing the buttons.
So this was the panel for the text in the header part of the window.
Now this is going to contain the buttons.
So the new folder, the new file, the rename and the save buttons.
So these are all the four buttons we are concerned about save, rename, new file and new folder.
So all these four buttons are added to the frame with the help of this add file button keyboard.
So this adds the buttons to the window like these four buttons are updating with the help of the button
component of the string library, and we will be adding the action listeners to these buttons later.
So let us firstly add what is left.
So we are creating a G panel again.
For the full panel.
Buttons.
Sew buttons.
Pewter panel.
And.
It will create a new J panel.
Okay.
So we have to set the opacity of the buttons for the panel.
Not said topic to force.
It is going to be slightly translucent.
We can see that and we have to set it to four as the opacity is not going to be as that it is going
to be transparent, a little bit translucent.
We can say that you can see that the buttons are not opaque.
Now the next part is or set the layout for the footer panel.
So buttons.
Puter panel dot set layout so that our footer is containing our dedicated layout inside the frame.
So we have to set the layout as new flow layout.
And this floor layout is going to contain argument zero.
So the water is flowing.
You can see that this is called a flow layout.
Now the next thing we are going to add buttons to the footer.
So we are having four buttons.
So we will be adding all the four buttons to the footer panel.
So buttons, footer, panel, dot add and we will be adding components as.
So what are the buttons?
Firstly, we are having save file button.
So yes, here it is.
Now I will be copying this part three more times as there are a total of four buttons and the components
are going to be name.
By button.
The next one is.
Okay.
So what are the next two buttons, the new folder and the new file button.
So copying it again and passing the component says add file.
But then and at last add folder button.
Okay.
So this is how we have added buttons to the footer panel.
Now, the next concern is to cover this element's counterpart.
So we have to count the number of elements which is initially present.
And whenever we open a folder, then count that number of elements and then display here.
So we have to write the separate code snippet for that.
So file this is going to count the number of files.
So we are calling it as file, creating the method file.
Current folder is going to be the argument.
So whatever is the current folder we are inside.
It is counting the number of files and folder inside that.
So footer info label.
And a new label for that counter.
We can call it as counters.
Now.
A bracket.
Of course, jailable is a component, so whenever we have to call it, we have to use brackets now for
testing for labour.
So we have to set icon.
You can see that there is a tiny icon and it is a white colored tiny icon.
So we have to set the icon, of course.
So it is it already present icon.
We can just call it whatever info label dot set icon.
And the icon is going to be.
File system view.
File system we can call it from the suggestions dot.
Get system icon.
What a fine.
So yes we are calling these or already embedded icons inside the.
So jailable is written as jailable so that it is gone for infallible.
We have called that icon for our system icon, which is already present inside the Java library.
And after that, I can think we have to like decide it according to the path of that folder.
Whatever path is the header is containing, it should show the count according to that path only.
So after creating the food label, this was the food label adding four buttons to the food label.
We were kind of like talking about this part.
The part will be update the count for the number of folders present.
So by default it will contain three elements.
As we were having three divisions for the hard disk, the C, the D and the E drive.
So this is going to be the initial text and then this folder label is going to update according to that
file path.
So it will get the number of calls from the path.
Whenever we will update the path here, it is going to update accordingly.
So initially it was three and now it is 31.
You can see that.
So this is how it is updating itself according to the path.
This is the dimension for that panel.
It is containing a return, a height, a font style, of course, and the background color.
So it is written in a white text.
So this is the font color.
We have set it as color dot white.
This is how we can set the font color and the size for the font now coming to the next part.
So this is the footer panel.
We have added this current folder as a method.
We have to add that footer panel inside the panel.
So totally these are the panel which is creating the panels and handling the panels.
So once we have created this footer panel, footer info panel, we can see that we have to add it inside
the frame with the help of this method.
Now, the Next Edge panel is going to be for the display panel we are having here.
So here you can see that we are having two divisions of this frame.
This we are calling it a show panel and this we are calling it as a display panel.
So we have created a footer panel, a header panel which will contain the path and the show panel.
Now, this is the display panel we are talking about.
So here you can see that after the footer panel.
We are here with the display panel.
So this display panel is containing a preferred size.
It is containing a size inside the frame head.
You can see that we are also resizing it with the help of this scroller.
We can say that we were dragging the scroller and resizing that this plan, the show pane according
to our use.
So yes, this was all about the display pane.
It contains a layout and we have to add that for like footer panel on the display panel to the frame.
After this we are coming to the file browser constructor.
So we have created the build function.
This build function was creating all the things about the frame.
It was basically adding every component inside the frame, whether it be the panels, the buttons and
everything.
Now, after the build function, we are coming to the file browser constructor.
So inside this file browser constructor, we have called this file system view method to get this view
enough form of file.
So here we call this like loop, which is a padding on the screen as file system view.
Inside this, initially we are creating a computer object which is containing default, mutable three
notes.
So these are the default multiple tree nodes which we have created.
So basically inside the file browser constructor, we are attaching functionalities to the file browser.
Initially it was like containing no subfolders and some files only the C, D and E drives were open.
So yes, this was how initially it was.
Now later whenever we add nodes to the tree, what basically notes that her notes are the soft folder
to the drive divisions.
So once we add a like subdivisions folders inside the tree, we will call it as nodes.
And this part is completely handling the hierarchy.
L look for the file browser, so things are opening in the form of a tree.
These are the nodes and these are the parents.
So this is how this file browser constructor is looking up to.
We are adding mouse listeners and set self render, so we have to render all the files here once we
click on this key or.
The subfolders will be rendered inside this day and this expansion we can see that will show pain will
be like not expanded anymore it will used to its parent.
Also the Muslins we have discussed about it.
We are handling the folders with a click of a mouse.
Also the tree selection.
Listening.
So.
We have to select any tree, and that tree will be expanded to its children, of course.
So whatever we are opening, whichever folder we are opening, this text field is changing its value
according to that specific folder spot.
So we have to set the functionalities for that part.
Also that how according to the tree model is changing, it is rendering itself, rendering itself.
Then the path value is also changing accordingly.
So this public void value change the function containing a tree selection event.
So basically we are selecting an event from the tree.
These tree selection is a method.
We are selecting an event from the tree and that value of the path is changing accordingly.
So the default material tree node, which we have already created as a method earlier, is going to
contain the nodes and that path is going to be taken as event.
So whatever the path is, that event is will update the path in the text field here in the header path.
So yes, initially it will contain our text, my computer and later we will update it to the.
But I suppose we haven't like opened this paint folder.
Then it will be updated to be slash.
Well, what is ten point paint?
And inside the subfolder we are opening, then accordingly the path will be updated.
So this is how this value change function is working.
We have to add a three expansion listener.
So a three is expanding and the path is updating according to that.
So the three expanding listener is also a function.
The program should listen to that three expansion.
That's how this tree is expanding and what should be the folders which should appear on the show panel.
And yes, this was how we were creating the child.
Once we reduce that three, the children's note should be removed.
Only the parent should be visible.
And we have added a thread runner.
So we have discussed about it that this is opening in a threaded manner.
So yes, this was all about till now.
Now the next part, we will cover a few more functionalities.